# CS-250-retrospective
To interpret user needs and implement a program, it is important to have a clear communication supported by detailed and evolving documentation. The most important aspect is to build the user stories from ongoing conversations with the user, market research, and testing. These stories should have acceptance criteria outlining what features and functionality is needed for each aspect of the project. These stories should be distilled into small and deliverable vertical slices that can be easily iterated on. They also should include items like wireframes and designs, where applicable. The user stories help with interpretation because they allow you to see the final result of the technical effort in developing the software. From there, it is the job of the developer to understand the technical needs to implement the feature and support that vision. The acceptance criteria ensures that the final result, regardless of implementation details is achieved.

I approach developing programs by first ensuring that each user story is detailed and broken down into small deliverables. If there are unknowns within each user story, my expectation is to clarify these details in sprint rituals such as refinement. From there, there can be determinations as to whether or not these clarifications can be additional stories. I absolutely look to create small slices of deliverable work from each user story to ensure that they can be iterated on, easily tested as they are delivered and supported by continuous integration so that we can provide constant value to the customer.

A good team member in software development is the most important skill a developer can have. In my early days in the field, I put a high value on technical prowess and coding chops. While those are important too, I have learned that being a team player is far more of an asset than the best technical chops could ever deliver. A good team player can help the entire organization through training, good communication, retention, and collaboration even across teams and departments. A good team player can help lift morale and facilitate difficult conversations to help each member of the team utilize their strengths and improve their opportunities. A good team player often also makes a better developer in a technical sense as well. Writing functional programs is often the easiest part of coding. In my opinion, one of the more challenging and important parts of coding is writing performant code that works that can be maintained and understood for years to come by any developer. It takes a team player who is always cognizant of other people and how they will interpret and maintain that code moving forward to craft code that can be well-architected and understood. A good team player is a valuable commodity in the industry and a skill that should be constantly honed and valued at the highest price.
